readme.md, before:

# Coding challenges 

These great challenges are published at https://codingchallenges.fyi by John Cricket [Twitter](https://twitter.com/johncrickett)

Checkout the newsletter also here on [Substack](https://codingchallenges.fyi/)

I have started on week 1 in the implementing the challenges starting march 2023. Since then John published every week a new challenge.

I love the most the real world applications as Redis, load balancer, webserver, IRC client, json parse, url shortener and more to come ....

I started to use Discort and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Lolo46822032) to share some solutions.

I decided to implemented back with Java. I have been working with Java since 1.0 back in 2000 and worked with it professionally for more than 18 years. Then I started with C# and powershell working with Azure Cloud.
Now 2023 I tought coming to learn back Java using these challenges.

# Write your own

here you can find all my implementation

- 1 wc tool
    - word counter https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-1
    - very simple tool to get back with Java tooling, pipelines and arg parsing
- 2 JSON parser
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-2
    - this is a great project to implement scanner and parser and tried to strong test it with lots of test cases (pos and neg cases)
    - if you need testcases - check here https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-2/app/src/test/resources/tests
- 3 Compression tool
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-3
    - get into the Huffman Encoder/Decoder - quite complex binary trees with insertion logic to implement
    - without testcases - no chance to solve this riddle
    - awesome experience John
- 4 cut Tool
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-4v
    - little linux tool. simple and easy
- 5 Load Balancer
    - https://codingchallenges.fyi/challenges/challenge-load-balancer
    - documented with readme.md
    - invested quite a bit of time for fully dynamic and reliable Round Robin
    - and chaos engineering tests to kill BE servers and not to loose any message
- 6 Sort: not implemented
- 7 Calculator: none implemented
- 8 Redis Server
    - https://codingchallenges.fyi/challenges/challenge-redis
    - this is by far the best challenge I have every implemented
    - learning the redis protocol step by step and implementing a fully functional server to use redis-benchmark was great
    - I extended the challenge with lots of commands incl. docu and meta data
    - this is AWESOME idea by John to implement
    - with this you can really learn a new language
    - dont look at performance - more to code redactorings and testcases
    - I implemented a lot of test cases: I used chatGPT to generate test cases for me
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-8/app/src/test/resources
- 9 grep
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge-9
    - I used just my mobile phone and javascript to implement it
    - has some headache topics with * and folders .... check it out
- 10 uniq Tool: not implemented
- 11 WebServer
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-11
    - cool to learn the HTTP1.1 protocol and implement it without support libraries
    - I extended my work to implement Servlet types (static files, rest) with routing
    - at the end I realized that maybe the scanner is a bit an overkill
    - but funny to solve
- 12 UrlShortener: not implement, we implemented this just some months ago in my company :-)
- 13 diff Tool: not implemented
- 14 shell: not implemented
- 15 cat Tool: not implemented
- 16 IRC Client:
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-16
    - great to learn the protocol of IRC from the client perspective
    - massive refactoring from step 2 to step 3 - as supposed
    - I tried to this not to build a scanner but use regexp for the different patterns. finally I must say - I like scanners. 
    - without https://regex101.com/ - no chance to implement this type of regexp

I wanted to thank John Cricket for this challenges and I encourage every Engineer from Junior to Principal to do this. Learn a new language or get back to language you have used to code (as me here in Java). 

And also learn to understand real-world applications while writing your own version of it. 

thx
Lolo

[LinkedIn](linkedin.com/in/lorenzhaenggi)
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Lolo46822032)

Commit message:

added readme.md with language history

readme.md, after:

# Coding challenges 

These great challenges are published at https://codingchallenges.fyi by John Cricket [Twitter](https://twitter.com/johncrickett)

Checkout the newsletter also here on [Substack](https://codingchallenges.fyi/)

I have started on week 1 in the implementing the challenges starting march 2023. Since then John published every week a new challenge.

I love the most the real world applications as Redis, load balancer, webserver, IRC client, json parse, url shortener and more to come ....

I started to use Discort and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Lolo46822032) to share some solutions.

I decided to implement it back with Java. I have been working with Java since v1.0 back in 2000 and worked with it professionally for more than 18 years. Then I started with C# and powershell working with Azure Cloud. 

Little history: Languages learned
- Back in 1994 I learned to code in BASIC on [Sharp 1401](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sharp_PC-1401) and on MS-DOS BASIC in 1985 on my first PC 4.77 Mhz, with a Hercules grafic card, 640KB RAM, 20MB Disk :-) and Floppies. And sure got to know [Assembly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_language#Assembler) to do all crazy stuff down the low level.
- With the Apple Mac512 used in highschool I started coding with [Pascal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Pascal) by [Niklaus Wirth](https://people.inf.ethz.ch/wirth). During an internship I used Pascal to run on an [VAX by DEC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VAX)
- [Modula-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modula-2) was the successor of Pascal also by [Niklaus Wirth](https://people.inf.ethz.ch/wirth) and here I started all my private coding
- At University ETH Zurich I used to code in [Oberon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oberon_(programming_language)) by [Niklaus Wirth](https://people.inf.ethz.ch/wirth) and [Oberon-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oberon-2) the object oriented extension of Oberon. I loved it. Beside that we use to code our first Neuronal network with 10 nodes in [Lisp](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisp) and our first knowledge base in [Prolog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prolog) - something completly different but nice.
- At my first business job in 1994 I learned and loved [Smalltalk](https://people.inf.ethz.ch/wirth/Oberon/index.html) - the real object oriented language. In a private project, I even implemented my own Smalltalk parser, compiler and runtime environment in Oberon based on the architecture and bytecode from [A little Smalltalk](https://rmod-files.lille.inria.fr/FreeBooks/LittleSmalltalk/ALittleSmalltalk.pdf). I also used Visual-Age Smalltalk in my STA in Dallas, TX, USA in 1999.
- In 2000 I arrived at the WWW finally and I learned Java and [JDK 1.x](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_version_history) and used Java for more then 18 years in business and private.
- During Hackathons I learned to code in [Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript), [node.js](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Node.js), , [Solidy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solidity#:~:text=Solidity%20is%20the%20primary%20language,enterprise%2Doriented%20Hyperledger%20Fabric%20blockchain.)
- Then I arrived in the Azure Cloud and used [C#](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_(programming_language) and [powershell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell) for more than 3 years now.

Now in 2023 I thought coming back to Java for these challenges. Unfortunatly Oberon and Smalltalk are almost dead.


# Write your own

here you can find all my implementation

- 1 wc tool
    - word counter https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-1
    - very simple tool to get back with Java tooling, pipelines and arg parsing
- 2 JSON parser
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-2
    - this is a great project to implement scanner and parser and tried to strong test it with lots of test cases (pos and neg cases)
    - if you need testcases - check here https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-2/app/src/test/resources/tests
- 3 Compression tool
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-3
    - get into the Huffman Encoder/Decoder - quite complex binary trees with insertion logic to implement
    - without testcases - no chance to solve this riddle
    - awesome experience John
- 4 cut Tool
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-4v
    - little linux tool. simple and easy
- 5 Load Balancer
    - https://codingchallenges.fyi/challenges/challenge-load-balancer
    - documented with readme.md
    - invested quite a bit of time for fully dynamic and reliable Round Robin
    - and chaos engineering tests to kill BE servers and not to loose any message
- 6 Sort: not implemented
- 7 Calculator: none implemented
- 8 Redis Server
    - https://codingchallenges.fyi/challenges/challenge-redis
    - this is by far the best challenge I have every implemented
    - learning the redis protocol step by step and implementing a fully functional server to use redis-benchmark was great
    - I extended the challenge with lots of commands incl. docu and meta data
    - this is AWESOME idea by John to implement
    - with this you can really learn a new language
    - dont look at performance - more to code redactorings and testcases
    - I implemented a lot of test cases: I used chatGPT to generate test cases for me
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-8/app/src/test/resources
- 9 grep
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge-9
    - I used just my mobile phone and javascript to implement it
    - has some headache topics with * and folders .... check it out
- 10 uniq Tool: not implemented
- 11 WebServer
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-11
    - cool to learn the HTTP1.1 protocol and implement it without support libraries
    - I extended my work to implement Servlet types (static files, rest) with routing
    - at the end I realized that maybe the scanner is a bit an overkill
    - but funny to solve
- 12 UrlShortener: not implement, we implemented this just some months ago in my company :-)
- 13 diff Tool: not implemented
- 14 shell: not implemented
- 15 cat Tool: not implemented
- 16 IRC Client:
    - https://github.com/lolo8304/coding-challenge/tree/main/no-16
    - great to learn the protocol of IRC from the client perspective
    - massive refactoring from step 2 to step 3 - as supposed
    - I tried to this not to build a scanner but use regexp for the different patterns. finally I must say - I like scanners. 
    - without https://regex101.com/ - no chance to implement this type of regexp

I wanted to thank John Cricket for this challenges and I encourage every Engineer from Junior to Principal to do this. Learn a new language or get back to language you have used to code (as me here in Java). 

And also learn to understand real-world applications while writing your own version of it. 

thx
Lolo

[LinkedIn](linkedin.com/in/lorenzhaenggi)
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Lolo46822032)
